Hi, I'm Vicki MacDonald and I'm in Holy Trinity Church, Flandernow, and I'm speaking to people
during the longest yarn, and I'm speaking to Sonia Bird. Sonia was born before the war and
she has some memories of the war and other memories of people that she knew during the war.
Thank you, Sonia. So tell me a little bit about when you were born.
And I was born in 1941 in Staffordshire. I don't really have very memory and very real memories
of the actual war, except what my sister, who was six years old, told me. Apparently,
I spent a lot of the time doing, if there were any raids nearby, in a carricot underneath an oak table
down in the cellar of our house, which with hindsight you'd think if we'd been bombed,
we'd all have been buried, probably killed. I do vaguely remember playing in the snow in the garden
in the remains of an old Anderson shelter that my father and uncle had built for us.
And apparently we did actually spend a few hours there at times, but we felt safer in the house
down in the cellar. This is all being told to me by my sister. For what it's worth, I have an uncle,
had an uncle, who, to tell you a bit, my uncle. My mum told me about a time when
she remembered during the war when her brother, who was in the army as an engineer, he came home
and he used to give her sixpence to polish his boots. And apparently he didn't speak about the
war for years afterwards, but she gradually learned that he had been driving an ammunition lorry
to the front line and his friend, whom he'd grown up with, gone through training college with,
was driving another one, more or less parallel to him. They came to a tree,
his uncle went one side and his friend went the other side and the friend hit a mine and exploded.
So that was what had upset him and he couldn't talk about it. It was just simply a
providence, a matter of luck, that he was the one that lived and the friend didn't.
So when you hear about that, you know, it makes the head on the back of your neck stand up and
think how close the shape it was. His son was training as a glider pilot and he got his wings
or whatever the terminology was. The day before peace was declared, so he never actually had to
fly a glider to drop off people and other soldiers in France and then make his own way back,
which would have happened if it had been a few more days. My father wasn't called up because
at the time he was a sink man and he worked in a factory, still tube industries, I think it was
called, and they were making all the tubes that go in aeroplane engines, possibly spitfires.
And so his factory was always being searched for by the Nazi bombers, which worried my mother a lot.
She used to look over the fields towards where the factory was near Walsall and she saw this big glow
in the sky and she thought something dreadful has happened. She could tell it was a major fire.
It transpired that it was the date Coventry Cathedral was bombed. I have seen that since
and what a marvelous job it's been made of to rebuild it. My father didn't survive the war,
but he was a sick man and he died when he was only 53. I'm trying to think of some more.
I can't think of anything else.
Thank you so much Sonia. I think those are really wonderful memories. Thank you.